[Music]
foreign
we're here to talk about scalar School
of Technology we've been receiving many
thousands of applications and a lot of
questions so we're here to answer all of
them my name is bhavik rathod I'm the
president at scalar School of Technology
I lead the four-year undergraduate
program in computer science out here
prior to this I ran an education startup
which was focusing on Early Childhood
learning mostly for the North America
market and before that I was the
founding leader and the director at Uber
and ubereats in India and South Asia
Aya with me saxena who is also the
co-founder at scalar an interview bit
prior to that he was the founding
engineer for fab.com which was one of
the fastest unicorns in the world and
before that he's also been a triple ID
Hyderabad alumni so all right we're here
to answer some questions for our
students and we've been getting a lot of
them for many thousands of applications
one of the most common questions we get
from parents and Learners is that this
is our first year why should they trust
us that's a great question when someone
is planning to join a college it's very
important that you can have high
confidence that this is the right place
for you to spend next four years and
shape your future
so now you are right that uh this is the
first year of scalar School of
Technology
but that being said scalar have been
around for almost a decade uh if we talk
about the founders me and anshuman we
have been in industry for almost 15
years uh worked with companies like
Facebook uh which I'm sure everyone
knows about uh Fab which have been one
of the fastest unicorn in the world back
in 2012.
and also talking about the team you
yourself you led the team to build Uber
India ubereats we have people in our
leadership team
who have been cxos of companies like
myntra Amazon Facebook and lot many more
talking about
who have studied with us in the past
close to 40 000 working Professionals in
the IIT industry have joined scalar to
become the top Tech Professionals in the
Indian and Global software industry
if we talk about the placements outcome
of them which in my opinion is the most
important thing about an educational
institute
so Amazon for example which is one of
the most reputed tech employer across
the world
hired more people as software Engineers
out of the scalar graduate school then
all the iits combine combined here I'm
not talking about just one of the iits
but all the iits in India
if we talk about what kind of salaries
they have gotten
so we got KPMG to do a placement on it
and scalers graduate in the past had an
average salary of 21.6 lakhs
so I think these are fairly strong
numbers adding to that
we have been backed by investors
who have been very early investors in
companies like apple Google WhatsApp
Instagram
which is like Sequoia India uh
we have light rock who backed us as an
investor we have tiger Global who backed
us
not just these institutional investors
who are most respected investors in the
world
we have likes of kunalsa of cred we have
Bindi bansal of Flipkart we have which
are secure Sharma supporting scalar
School of Technology so these are really
really prominent members of the Indian
uh Tech entrepreneur ecosystem and who
are backing us
to make sure that we are able to
contribute meaningfully uh to the tech
ecosystem of the country so I think all
of this is a fairly you know strong uh
points that which which positions the
scalar as one of the strongest player to
create a very high quality Tech
University
now evenly we've designed a very very
strong curriculum in computer science
but one of the questions you get from
our students is that do they need any
prior coding experience before they come
here
no I agree that the curriculum even uh
you know some of the like Professionals
in the industry when they look at the
curriculum
teaching them a lot of things right but
the good thing is that we have designed
the entire you know Learning Journey in
four years in a way that knowing any
programming or you know fundamentals of
computer science is absolutely not
needed at the time of joining as long as
someone is able to do well in our
Entrance Test that we have very
carefully designed to check for the
learnability and mathematical aptitude
of an individual uh the pedagogy and
curriculum is designed in a way that
even if someone have never coded before
in life they would absolutely be able to
learn it effectively as long as they put
in the right amount of effort towards it
so knowing a programming language
absolutely not period like if I talk
about myself when I finished my school I
had never touched the computer but I was
able to build skills in computer science
fairly well we have tried to ensure that
even students without coding experience
can do very well in other people
great so tell me if I'm a student
and I'm a high caliber student and I
have possibilities of getting admissions
in multiple different institutions and
colleges universities out there uh
including some of the more traditional
institutions also and I also have an
admission offer from scalar School
Technology here
how should I make this choice
I'm sure that majority of students who
get selected in the School of Technology
will have very hard choices to make
because of course they're super smart
students most likely they will have
multiple options
right now I would answer it at two
levels first is that first knowing that
what do you want to do in career so if
you want to if you are fairly clear that
you enjoy computer science you enjoy
mathematics and you want to make a
career in the field of software
engineering or data Sciences or AI
animals
then first thing is that you have to
prioritize computer science because
joining any other branch no matter how
famous how old how good an Institute is
but if you are joining a subject in
which you don't want to make your career
then effectively you would end up
wasting your four years right so first
thing is that now if you are clear that
you want to make a career in the field
of Technology focus more on things
related to computer science
then look at that what is the curriculum
like you know whatever options that you
have to study computer science
what kind of curriculum they have
because now if you look at how much
technology has evolved in last 20 30
years like uh if I talk about a
smartphone
around which mostly our life revolves
right all the way from waking up to
sleeping
it almost is 15 years back it didn't
exist iPhone for example was launched in
2008 just 15 years back right
now if I compare with the even the
computer science curriculum at many
universities
if you look at their curriculum 20 years
back and if you look at their curriculum
today this is barely any change
so like looking at the curriculum
becomes very very important that it has
to be curriculum which makes you ready
for the industry today not what the
industry was 30 years back when those
curriculums were designed I think those
two parameters to evaluate would help
people take the right decision for their
real career instead of being biased by
uh you know some of the influences and
biases that exist
uh third important point is also who is
teaching
so
again if your goal is making a very
strong career in the industry in the
field of
you know things related to computer
science
then the best people to teach you for
that are people who are practicing in
those you know working on those Cutting
Edge Technologies building things which
are you know Cutting Edge so I think
basis these uh you know making the
decision will lead to much better
decision making
so picking up from the last point that
we just made
um what kind of Faculty or what kind of
instructors will be teaching at scale
technology right
so
like our one very core belief have been
that anyone who is teaching
should be a person who does that himself
in a real industry
again drawing the parallel from the
medical industry right if a surgeon has
to be trained to be a really great
surgeon
it has to be trained by a person who
does the surgery day in and day out
unfortunately that is how you are most
of the medical education system has
evolved if I look at let's say anyone
who is doing a masters in surgery their
trainers their instructors their
professors are the people who will be
doing some surgeries in the day and in
the later half in the afternoon they
will be training right
so every single person who is teaching
at scalar are people
who are industry practitioners now
talking about some of the people uh for
example srikanth Verma who was one of
the founding members of Amazon's Ai and
ml lab in Seattle
he's the person who is the entire
architect of skillers AI nml modules and
he's the person who will be teaching as
well uh we have Shivan shivang was a
senior in leader Tech leader at
Microsoft before joining scalar as as uh
in the in the academic team now he's the
person who is designing the core
software engineering curriculum and he's
going to teach as well
um apart from these people both part of
the scalar team uh you know industry
professionals who come to scale School
of Technology to teach we also have the
super mentors who are the most
successful most celebrated Tech
entrepreneurs and they keep visiting
scale School of Technology very often so
that like our students can derive a lot
of motivation inspiration and guidance
for them and like which enables them to
dream really really big which is beyond
just what they could do in the shorter
run but what motivates them to probably
do much more later in their career wow
that sounds amazing
um if it's so amazing why are we only
taking 200 students this year
another very very good question is so as
I just talked about that when someone is
planning to join an Institute it's going
to become their home for next four years
and when our students are you know after
their school many of them might be
stepping out of their homes for the
first time in their life
we want to make sure it's truly their
home
now with 200 students we wanted to
ensure that we as a team has as much
focus and support for the students me
anshuman you I'm sure we would ensure
that we know every single student in our
campus by their names we understand
their dreams their aspirations their
fears because at this age a lot of such
factors become an important part right
so having this focus and care for them
is super important so we wanted to make
sure that's a small group of 200
students where we can give that care and
focus
another point is that scalar today is a
team of 1500 people these are our
employees team who exist today
out of which we have a team of hundred
only in the Enterprise team whose job is
ensuring that our graduates are finding
the best opportunities we have worked
with close to 900 employer partners we
have close to 200 instructors in the
team
now all of this this very strong and
also large team is going to ensure that
these 200 students get the best support
possible in the world
third and most important part
that when we talk about an educational
institute as much we learn in the
classroom
we learn equally if not more from our
peer group outside of the classroom
then who these people are who are gonna
be with me for next four years become
super important
so in just 40 days since we announced
scale School of Technology we have
gotten more than 10 000 people who
applied for it
so what we and by the time I think by
July
the number could easily exceed maybe
fifty thousand and hundred thousand like
whatever that number could be
but we want to make sure that we select
200 students
who are really focused
who have the right attitude
and who are the most intelligent 200
kids who we can make sure that create a
very high quality culture and
environment in the University
so because of all of these reasons I
think we said that it's okay to have
lesser students but try and make sure
that they get the best possible support
and end up with the best possible
outcome when they graduate sounds great
they sound like the super 200.
absolutely that's what it's going to be
all right
um one of the other questions we also
get is that this is a program where they
get a bachelor's and a master's degree
can you tell me a little bit more about
that so starting with uh our
requirements that a lot of countries
have for immigration that if you want to
immigrate for employment in say North
America or Europe they often demand a
four-year formal education after use
schooling right now we wanted to figure
out that what is the best kind of both
degree and education that would happen
in four years
what we realized was that a combination
of a three-year undergraduate which we
are doing with bits Milani followed by a
one-year Masters which we are doing with
the European university called wolf so
of course within one year the students
will have to work hard on the 90 credits
which we are going to support them uh to
complete but then hence they will be
graduating with a three-year BS in
computer science followed by a one-year
master of science through ects now you
may ask me that why is this a BS and
masters of bachelor's and Masters
combination as opposed to a B Tech which
most of the people do after school right
now we thoroughly evaluated that
question as well
what we learned what we realized was
that A B Tech
does pushes us to do quite a few things
which might not be most conducive for
the learning outcome and the career
outcome of our students for example
in Industry integration focus on the
real skill building has been the North
Star for us right now A B Tech might not
allow a one-year integrated internship
right a B Tech regulations Etc would
require us to make sure that there is a
certain proportion of teachers who must
have say a PhD or a masters now what we
believe is that more than having a PhD
or Masters there's nothing wrong with
someone who might have a BHP to your
Masters but these people being
practitioners in industry is more
important so I would prefer to let's say
have a very highly educated person who
is also actively practitioner in the
industry as opposed to someone who might
have a great like a set of great degrees
but have never been a practitioner
so because of many of these reasons we
are B Tech some of the requirements of
being a b-tech degree might degrade the
quality of learning skill building and
career outcome that we want to drive
plus a masters also so being able to get
a masters in four year will also enable
them to get preferences in the
immigration process of some of the
countries which have additional points
for a master's holder in science
technology engineering and and
management which is for example Canada
has that Ireland has that so we tried to
design something which gives best value
out of Fourier of the education that
students are going to have
third and another very important point
is that as a North star again a very
strong belief that we have
that in today's world the real skills
matter much more than what degree you
have if I talk about my own experience
of having hired you know so many
engineers in last 15 years I'm sure you
would have had the same experience
ultimately when I'm hiring someone and
this is true for all the top companies
in the world as well for example if you
go to the career portal of Google
in their FAQ section they have actually
written it that for majority of our
engineering positions engineering and
research positions we do not require any
formal degree right right and that is
the world where the world is heading to
right so while of course degrees are
important we have tried to make sure
that the our our students get the
highest quality of accredited degrees
but at the end of the day it's the
skills that matter a lot many you know a
lot much more than what degree you have
this sounds very similar to the medical
field where doctors learn from senior
doctors and there's a hospital right
next to it also in many ways Engineers
are learning from other engineers
in a tech Park surrounded by all the top
tech companies in Bangalore sounds
really exciting so are you seeing this
program is recognized under ugc and
aicte 100 so as I mentioned that
students are going to graduate with two
degrees one a Bachelor of Science from
bits pillani now bits pilani is of
course 100 recognized by ugc
it's also one of the 10 Institute of
eminence in India right and which is of
course a great thing
as an Institute of eminence bits pilani
like aict is a body created to make sure
that the quality of education is good at
the long tail of Institute that exists
Institute of eminence are not required
to be under aict they are kind of a
level above that
now coming to the master's degree that
the students will get from the European
University uh which is under ects which
is European credit transfer and
accumulation system so as a European
Institute they do not need to be again
it's it's outside of purview of aict or
ugc to be regulating a European
Institute however ECE and CES are the
two bodies which evaluate the quality of
education at uh you know in Europe us
and they also offer the services to do
the credit transferred across different
jurisdictions so wolf University is
already approved under ECE and CES as
well so net net this is going to be a
degree which is probably ects is as a
matter of fact system which is most
widely accepted across the globe so
students will be graduating with the
degrees which are you know as widely
accepted across the globe as much it can
be so a student graduating from skills
to technology will be eligible for
comparative exams or government jobs
absolutely so if I talk about for
example if someone wants to write cat if
they want to give GRE or GMAT if they
want to give any government exams or
they want to appear for for government
jobs uh if they want to move abroad
they're going to be this degree is going
to enable them absolutely for any of
those let's say if someone wants to go
for additional Masters after having
received the master of science uh while
studying at Skill School of Technology
they can do go for that as well so we
have tried to make sure that once
students graduate they should have
optionality to do whatever they might
want to do there should not be anything
limiting them from any of the options
sounds great
um so this is a degree from bitspilani
the BSC degree
how will the curriculum work will will
the curriculum be integrated seamlessly
for a learner
so again as academicians ourselves as a
teacher who have been teaching folks for
10 years we want to make sure that the
entire
process pedagogy of teaching is as
efficient as possible
for their Bachelor of Science Program
they have already curated a very high
quality curriculum right so what we did
was that we have created a curriculum
which is super set of what curriculum
bits pilani prescribes so now in our in
our plan of the classes that we are
going to conduct in our physical campus
they make sure that all the students are
very well prepared to you know make sure
that their skills on the subjects and
topics that's bits pilani has they're
fully covered enabling them to not be
bothered about separately having to
prepare for the bits pilani exams at the
same time the like as I said that the
curriculum that we have designed is a
superset of the curriculum that we
itself so we have added a lot of
additional things to it which make sure
that they are very highly relevant and
sought after by the industry so in 18
months after 18 months when we want to
make sure that they all have very high
quality internships so our curriculum is
going to ensure that apart from being
very competent for the bits planning
exams they are very competent to get
highest quality internships in the
industry as well
wow excellent
um can you tell me a little bit more
about the fee structure is the fee
all-inclusive are there any additional
things that are hidden in there
so I do absolutely nothing hidden uh the
fee would make sure that it covers for
their cost of tuition cost uh the cost
of accreditation and degree the the
lodging and voting cost which includes a
very high quality stay a very high a
campus filled with a lot of amenities a
very high quality of food it covers all
of that
now talking about the fee uh the overall
fee is 19 lakhs
which is broken down over four years
of course uh in our country there are a
lot of talented individuals who might be
coming from economic weaker backgrounds
where being able to have access to high
quality of education is hard in our
scalar we wanted to make sure that every
single thing be it the quality of their
instructors be it the quality of their
accommodation food facilities they all
have to be top class right but at the
same time innovates are responsibility
to make sure that any really talented
deserving candidate
who qualifies for a through our
selection process they should not be
denied just because they come from a
background where they cannot afford it
so what we have also done is we have
created a lot of scholarships which are
like I'm very thankful for the industry
a lot of people from the industry who
have supported these scholarships so we
have a lot of you know very high quality
very deep scholarships which exist to
people but of course very talented and
people who need it
great are there also any financing
options that we offer for this program
right so very great question that apart
from scholarships even people who might
not be coming from weaker financial
backgrounds but just to manage their
finances well they might want to go for
a financing option where maybe the
students can pay the fee after they
graduate or the parents can pay it you
know in small installments over time so
we have worked with some of the you know
very reputed banks financial systems
offer an option to be able to take an
educational loan and different kind of
options are available there depending on
the preference that what kind of monthly
Emi they want to pay when they want to
start paying the emis the multiple
financing options that we have been able
to create let's go back to scholarships
right you spoke about the fact that
they're scholarships can you tell me a
little bit about how much scholarship
can a student expect and what kind of
students will expect a scholarship
so we have created different kind of
scholarship so if I talk about what kind
of scholarship students can expect
we have created scholarships all the way
from 25 to 50 to even hundred percent
now who should expect who can expect
scholarships and what what do we expect
when we are picking students from
scholarship one thing is of course the
like anyone who is being selected for
scalar School of Technology they have to
Showcase certain Talent right
and they have to show a certain spike in
something where we can foresee that
given a chance this person can have
really high impact career in technology
right so that is definitely there apart
from that we have also created certain
scholarship on the basis of need as well
so there are certain scholarships so for
example we have created a scholarship
for women in Tech in our country
encouraging more and more women to get
into Tech and then Tech leadership is
Super Paramount we have created a
brighter future scholarship which is
meant to support people who come who are
very talented but come from an economic
background where they might not be able
to afford a high quality education not
just at scalar but anywhere uh there is
a scholarship which we have reserved for
people uh which we call innovators of
Tomorrow scholarship so students who
have you know shown certain outside of
the regular schoolwork curriculum
innovation in life where we see a spike
a spark that they might you know they
have a mindset that they might create
certain big impact Technical Innovations
in the future so these are different
kind of scholarship that we have created
great you mentioned about earlier that
one of the core objectives of the
program is to make sure that the
students get their best outcome out of
the program which is why we're also
being very selective to only get 200.
um and a big part of the program usually
is that after four years what kind of
placements can I expect
so what kind of placements can students
expect here so at scalar School of
Technology we try to make sure that it's
fully industry aligned which leads to
very high quality job outcomes now
generally when we talk about placement
it comes as an afterthought that what
would happen after four years
but any system which is which have
faster feedback loops that generally
ends up working so much better than you
know trying to weigh it all the way for
you so what we have tried to make sure
is that after 18 months itself
we will figure out how do these students
get a high quality paid internship at
the top tech companies right now then
these students will spend a year with an
integrated internship uh being inside
the industry learning the craft what
they are gonna do later
and once they come back from The
Internship
for further one and a half months we
will be helping them learn the craft as
a senior engineer
so here we have created various
specializations it could be in something
like say algorithmic trading that could
be something related to Tech leadership
that could be related to Ai and ml
specialization and hence by the time
they finish their four year of Education
they are going to be as capable as a
senior engineer in the industry right
now
someone who is graduating with
capabilities as much as a senior
engineer in the industry they are bound
to get so much better career outcome
than someone who has graduated from a
traditional Institute so that is how it
like this entire process the entire
curriculum it has been designed in a way
reverse engineered from what would lead
to highest quality job outcome for our
students
yeah anything you mentioned this earlier
as well uh in the segment that we have a
team of 1500 professionals working at
scalar and almost a hundred of them just
work in the placement cell and these
hundred have worked with over 900
companies already to get placements for
these 200 students right so 900
employers for 200 students uh so I'm
very confident that you know like of
course fourth year four years when they
will graduate is a lot of time to go
but their career outcomes are going to
be phenomenal
great sounds really exciting
um one of the other questions we've been
getting from a lot of students is why is
this a compulsory residential program
even if I'm from Bangalore why do I have
to come and stay on the campus
I'm sure that will be hard on a lot of
loving mothers uh but what we realized
is that
as much you learn in the classroom as
and we had talked about it earlier as
well that you learn equally if not more
from your peers and that is one of the
reason why we are trying to create a
very a group of 200 really smart really
hard working kids with the right
attitude right so and to ensure that
it's mandatory that they are living in
an environment together which is highly
conducive towards learning so in our
micro campus where all these students
will be living together
there will be so we have something who
we call as bad success managers these
are the teaching assistants mentors who
live in the same campus and ensure that
even outside of the classroom the
students have access to someone who can
help them learn in the right way they
can reach out to them at any point in
time to take guidance to take help on
you know whatever is being taught to
them
the campus has lot of facilities we have
made sure that there are dedicated uh
study areas in the campus uh like there
is facilities to uh you know have their
lab sessions in the campus itself uh
there are places like you know a big
Auditorium a big Amphitheater uh where
they can you know watch movies together
they can have fun uh because you know as
I said that this campus is going to be
their home for four years right and then
ensuring that it's it's a place which
gives them holistic development that
innovain Associates that if you just
come in and come out if you come at 10
in the morning leave at four then the
kind of development a holistic
development we want to give to this one
that becomes pretty hard uh and that is
why we said that even if it's uh even if
someone has been from Bangalore they
will have to live in the campus of
course they can go back to their homes a
couple of times in a month over the
weekends when when they want but there's
some mandatory releases attention
program this sounds great I actually
campus myself and it's beautiful and I'm
looking forward to having our 200
students on that campus to make it
really buzzing you know if I reflect
back on my four years of engineering
that I did many years ago now
um I made some of my best memories on
campus I made some of my best friends on
campus as well what kind of Campus Life
can students expect
it so fully agree that like it's not
just about study study study all day but
it's super important that people have
some fun as well
um so the campus that we have the micro
campus that we have it has a badminton
court it has a basketball court
um at a very nearby place we have a
swimming pool we have a Turf where you
know those who want to play cricket or
football they can go there and play that
uh in our main campus as well we have uh
again we have a basketball court we have
a ample open space uh to just walk
around sit with the friends uh have
collaborate their not just that so this
is more of a physical infra as important
as this physical infrastructure is
equally important is what kind of soft
infrastructure exists and by Soft
infrastructure I mean we have created
various clubs like there could be
something like a programming Club there
could be a robotics Club there is a
music Club there's a debate club uh so
what we have made sure is that there are
these clubs created where students can
find their passion uh they'll learn to
take responsibility and learn leadership
uh by being let's say leaders of a
specific club uh selecting other members
of the club planning activities and
overall having fun together right so
creating a very cohesive Community uh
where people of course collaborate for
their for their classrooms things that
they need to learn but they learn a lot
of social skills and have a lot of fun
by participating and managing and
running these veggies clubs as well yeah
yeah and for most loving parents out
there right and I'm a parent myself uh
they care about also how will their son
or daughter be living in the campus I
know and about stories about a lot of
Institutions where students are lining
up for using the bathroom so tell me a
little bit about just the infrastructure
on what they can expect also in terms of
living conditions and the kind of food
they can expect on campus
again very very important thing because
like you know a healthy mind lives in a
healthy body and a healthy body is
nothing but a result of what kind of
space you are what kind of environment
you are living in right so we try to
make sure try to make sure that the
students do not have to bother about
things which are not efficient which are
not conducive for for you know to be
able to focus on their learning growth
and having fun right so for example the
rooms that we have in our micro campus
which will be allocated to the students
these are very spacious rooms uh they
come as our twin sharing triple sharing
or single sharing depending on the
Preference they have a attached washroom
so as you said that the students do not
have to line up to present which I had
to do when I was living in the hostel
um
the rooms the entire space it is a
managed space what that means is that
the cleaning services are available uh
so that you know that it's a it always
maintains as a hygienic space as we know
that when in the college sometimes
students might just get so busy that
they're not they do not even have the
time to take care of this stuff there's
a laundry services in the micro campus
itself so again they don't have to you
know visit their time just rubbing
clothes uh so we have taken care of all
of these facilities we talked about
Movie Club right so uh there's an
Amphitheater where they can watch IPL
together they can watch movies together
uh we have planned to set up a movie
club so that very high quality movies
are screened in the movie club which
Inspire motivate give them exposure to
the right cultures across the world so
we have taken care of talking about the
food I think one of the most important
one often we worry about that you know
if let's say if I am someone from Delhi
and if I'm planning to move to Bangalore
will I have to eat dosa every day right
or while it's some delicious food it's a
very healthy food my favorite as well
but at the same time we had made sure
that it's there's a very hygienic
healthy mess on-premise available which
serve both South Indian food North
Indian food vegetarian food for
preference it even have option to serve
non-vegetarian food as well who has
preference for that even in the
vegetarian food menu we have ensured
that it's high on protein and nutritions
that make sure that everyone remains
really healthy and fit so we have taken
good care of making sure that it's a
environment which makes people mentally
strong and physically healthy both no it
sounds amazing and I know we have a
video that we released recently on the
campus walkthrough so for all of you out
there who haven't seen that video
there's a link that you can actually
look at and you can actually see the
entire video
um you know and get a good tour of the
campus of course if the students want to
come visit the campus they're more than
welcome to come visit the campus as well
and get a tour in person as well and I
do want to add you'll also get a chance
to interact with abhimanyu sir and
anshuman Sir as well besides of course
me on campus so yeah and in case there
are any more questions that our students
have or our parents have please drop
them in the comments below and we'll do
a round two and answer those questions
and also in case you know you think this
video and all these questions we've
answered will help others as well please
do share this video and this link with
other students and other parents as well
all right great thank you so much for
your time upon you thank you and I hope
you answer all the questions really well
absolutely sign off here
thank you
[Music]